# 2025-01-05

The date format for dev-diary follows the format YEAR-MONTH-DATE.

This directory contains notes and thoughts of @San7o during the
developement of the kernel. The notes do not aim to provide technical
details on the design decisions of the kernel, however I think that
they can be beneficial to the documentation. Those notes serve to
document my journey while building a complex system such as an OS.

## A little about my Background

The most complex project I have ever worked on at this point is
Brenta-Engine which is a modular graphics engine built on top of
OpenGL, SDL, GLFW using C++. As university lessons started again, I
had to work on smaller projects during weekends and spare time, such
as valfuzz which is a library for fuzzing, testing and benchmarking,
and  tenno-tl which is my own implementation of the C++ standard library.
Notably, I also installed Linux From Scratch and I am still maintaing
it on my main work machine as a learning project (however, the
amount of work is overwhelming expecially if I want to do stuff fast).
As I made more projects, I naturally wanted to go a step lower and
started programming in C. Notable projects include chttps (an HTTPS server)
and Baldo-Scanner which contains a kernel module to trace kernel
functions using kprobes. I made lots of other little projects such as
a neural network in c3, some stuff in rust, etc...
So overall I fell comfortable writing C++ and C code and I enjoy It,
which is the most important part.

# The OS

I started being interested in writing an OS this summer. Indeed
I created this repository 5 months ago but I dropped It because I
sincerely was not able to continue on my own and I decided to postpone
the project. As all my other projects, I did not want to follow
tutorials or guides because I wanted to figure everything out on my own.
Now I have a clearer idea on how a kernel works, specifically I have
looked at the linux kernel source code and design and I feel like
I have an high level understanding of Its subsystems and just an
intuition on how to implement everything.

I do not have a particular OS in mind, just something that works
would be a nice start. It probably will be a microkernel just
for ease of implementation (since there are less things to implement),
but other than that I do not imagine a particular use case, also
because I do not have a deep understanding of the system (but I will).

# Structuring the code

Right now I have a bootable iso that just prints an Hello World
on the screen. The first thing to set up is the directory structure
and the build system. OsDev Wiki as a skeleton project to start off but
I think there is too much already configured, which I don't like,
so I will figure It out on my own.

## The build system

The first thing to do is to look at some kernel examples, such as
the Linux kernel and the FreeBSD kernels, I will save those as
reference when I will be in need. The first thing to note is that
they do not use autotools and instead rely on the good old Makefile.
This is probably because those projects predate autotools, but It
felt strange when I checked the build system because most
of the C libraries I compiled where all using autotools. Anywany,
since the kernel does not have to link to anything or do any
dependency management, autotools basically becomes a Makefile so
I will do the same for my project.

## The structure

Talking about the directory structure, a smart thing that everybody
does is to separate the architecture dependent code into Its own
directory (`arch`) so that we can use the same api in the kernel
code and have different implementations based on the target.
Another thing would be to create the libc directory with a libc
implementation both for kernel space and user space. I will implement
user space eventually but I will not worry about that now. Both
kernel and libc will have their arch directory, the idea is that libc
is a totally separate implementation from the kernel.
